DOCS-11819-mqtt3-connector-final-kt (#1611)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt 3/1.0.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

= MQTT 3 Connector 1.0

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

> Anypoint Connector for MQTT 3 (MQTT 3 Connector) is an MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) version 3.x protocol compliant MuleSoft extension. MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe messaging protocol designed for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for MQTT 3 (MQTT 3 Connector) is an MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) v3.x protocol-compliant MuleSoft extension. MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe messaging protocol designed for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, and oil and gas.
```

The connector consumes and produces MQTT messages and supports all MQTT v3.x functionalities including message retention, last will and testament messages, and persistent sessions.

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the MQTT 3 Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* MQTT v3.x protocol
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have Anypoint Platform and Anypoint Studio.

> == Common Use Cases for Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Common Use Cases for the Connector
```

These are some common use cases for MQTT 3 Connector:

* Connect to MQTT brokers by specifying a failover server list that the client iterates over until a connection is successfully established.

> * Connect to MQTT brokers in reliable messaging schema and publish messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connect to MQTT brokers in a reliable messaging schema and publish messages.
```

* Connect to an MQTT broker and set a last will and testament (LWT) message to notify all the subscribers of the client’s disconnection.

> * Connect to an MQTT broker with TLS and listen for messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connect to an MQTT broker with Transport Layer Security (TLS) and listen for messages.
```

> * Listen for messages on a unique or multiple topics.

Reviewer: I think in this case, the meaning is "a single or multiple topics." (rather than unique)

* Listen for messages on multiple topics using single-level or multi-level wildcards.
* Publish messages to a topic.
* Publish messages with retention.
* Publish messages to an MQTT topic and set different Quality of Service (QoS) levels of delivery assurance for inbound or outbound messages.

> == MQTT Architecture

Reviewer: Do you need to add a line between 38 and 39? I always do but I don't know if it's necessary.

> MQTT uses the publish/subscribe model, where a client publishes messages to a particular address, known as `Topic`. Client receivers subscribe to such topic and receive the published message. In this model, neither the publisher nor the subscriber is aware of each other. The connection between the publisher and subscriber is managed by an MQTT broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MQTT uses the publish/subscribe model, in which a client publishes messages to a particular address, known as a `Topic`. Client receivers subscribe to the topic and receive the published message. In this model, neither the publisher nor the subscriber is aware of each other. The connection between the publisher and subscriber is managed by an MQTT broker.
```
